Readme.md, before:

qqsort
======
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/andrasq/node-qqsort.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/andrasq/node-qqsort?branch=master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/andrasq/node-qqsort/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/andrasq/node-qqsort?branch=master)

quick, non-blocking quicksort

Traditional in-place quicksort, but yields to the event loop both while
partitioning the array and between passes.  Pivot picked at random.

I needed a sort function for real-world, large dataset use.  It had to be
non-blocking to support very large arrays and/or complex comparator functions,
and had to allow for fatal errors in the comparator if the data was not
sortable.

`qqsort` does not block the event loop, allows duplicate values, and catches
errors thrown by the comparator.

        var qqsort = require('qqsort')

        var data = [2,3,1,4]
        qqsort(data, function(err) {
            // data => [1,2,3,4]
        })

        var data = [{a:2}, {a:3}, {a:1}, {a:4}]
        qqsort(data, function(a,b) { return a.a - b.a }, function(err) {
            // data => [{a:1}, {a:2}, {a:3}, {a:4}]
        })


API
---

### qqsort( array, [comparator(e1, e2),] callback(err [,array]) )

Reorder the elements of the array in-place as established by the comparator
function.

The comparator, if provided, will be passed array elements e1 and e2, and should
return -1 if e1 is to precede e2, 1 if e1 is to follow e2, and 0 if they are the
same.  The default comparator is `function(e1, e2) { return (e1 < e2) ? -1 : (e1 > e2) ? 1 : 0 }`

The callback will be called with any error thrown by the comparator function
and, for convenience, the modified input data array.


Related Work
------------

Searching for `sort`, `qsort`, `quicksort`, `shellsort` turns up lots of
packages, but all seem to be pedagogic or experimental.  The one I saw that took
a callback still sorted synchronously internally, and used the callback only for
call linkage.

Commit message:

special-case arrays of 20 or fewer items for a total speedup of 40% over 1.0.8; 1.0.9

Readme.md, after:

qqsort
======
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/andrasq/node-qqsort.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/andrasq/node-qqsort?branch=master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/andrasq/node-qqsort/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/andrasq/node-qqsort?branch=master)

quick, non-blocking quicksort

Traditional in-place quicksort, but yields to the event loop both while
partitioning the array and between passes.  Pivot picked at random.

I needed a sort function for real-world, large dataset use.  It had to be
non-blocking to support very large arrays and/or complex comparator functions,
and had to allow for fatal errors in the comparator if the data was not
sortable.

`qqsort` does not block the event loop, allows duplicate values, and catches
errors thrown by the comparator.

        var qqsort = require('qqsort')

        var data = [2,3,1,4]
        qqsort(data, function(err) {
            // data => [1,2,3,4]
        })

        var data = [{a:2}, {a:3}, {a:1}, {a:4}]
        qqsort(data, function(a,b) { return a.a - b.a }, function(err) {
            // data => [{a:1}, {a:2}, {a:3}, {a:4}]
        })


API
---

### qqsort( array, [comparator(e1, e2),] callback(err [,array]) )

Reorder the elements of the array in-place as established by the comparator
function.

The comparator, if provided, will be passed array elements e1 and e2, and should
return -1 if e1 is to precede e2, 1 if e1 is to follow e2, and 0 if they are the
same.  The default comparator is `function(e1, e2) { return (e1 < e2) ? -1 : (e1 > e2) ? 1 : 0 }`

The callback will be called with any error thrown by the comparator function
and, for convenience, the modified input data array.


Changelog
---------

- 1.0.9 - 40% faster and less blocking with special-cased short arrays

Related Work
------------

Searching for `sort`, `qsort`, `quicksort`, `shellsort` turns up lots of
packages, but all seem to be pedagogic or experimental.  The one I saw that took
a callback still sorted synchronously internally, and used the callback only for
call linkage.
